dogs

= RConfig 

The complete solution for Ruby Configuration Management. RConfig is a Ruby library that manages configuration within Ruby applications. It bridges the gap between yaml, xml, and key/value based properties files, by providing a centralized solution to handle application configuration from one location. It provides the simplicity of hash-based access, that Rubyists have come to know and love, supporting your configuration style of choice, while providing many new features, and an elegant API.

== Features

* Simple, easy to install and use.
* Supports yaml, xml, and properties files.
* Yaml and xml files support infinite level of configuration grouping.
* Properties files support git config-like configuration grouping.
* Intuitive dot-notation 'key chaining' argument access.
* Simple well-known hash/array based argument access.
* Implements multilevel caching to reduce disk access.
* Short-hand access to 'global' application configuration, and shell environment.
* Cascades multiple configuration files to support environment and host-specific configuration.
* On-load callbacks for single, multiple, or any config file.
* Embedded ruby code with ERB templating.
* Support for referencing values in property files (Yaml also has built in support using node anchors).


== Getting Started
=== Rails Apps
RConfig is released as a Ruby Gem. The gem is to be installed within a Ruby on Rails 3 application. To install, simply add the following to your Gemfile:

    # Gemfile
    gem 'rconfig'

After updating your bundle, run the installer

    $> rails generate rconfig:install

The installer creates an initializer used for configuring defaults used by RConfig

=== Non-Rails Apps
If you're not using RConfig in a Rails app, and you don't use Gemfile you can install RConfig with RubyGems

    gem install rconfig


== Requirements
Starting with version 0.4.0, RConfig requires at least Ruby 1.9, and Rails 3. Previous versions can be used in Ruby 1.8 and Rails 2.2+. Non-rails projects need ActiveSupport (>= 3 for RConfig 0.4.0, and > 2.2 for RConfig 0.3). RConfig now supports Rails 4 as of 0.5.0.

* Ruby 1.9+
* ActiveSupport 3.0+


== Example

  shell/console =>
    export LANG=en

  demo.yml =>
   server:
     address: host.domain.com
     port: 81
     host: <%= %x{host_name} %>
   ...

  application.properties =>
    debug_level=verbose
    app_root=/home/rahmal/apps/rconfig
    test_root=%{app_root}/tests
  ...

 demo.rb => 
  require 'rconfig'
  RConfig.load_paths = ['$HOME/config', '#{APP_ROOT}/config', '/demo/conf']
  RConfig.demo[:server][:port] => 81
  RConfig.demo.server.address  => 'host.domain.com'
  RConfig.demo.server.host     => 'host.local'

  RConfig.application.test_root => '/home/rahmal/apps/rconfig/tests'

  RConfig[:debug_level] => 'verbose'
  RConfig[:lang] => 'en'
  ...


== Bugs and Feature Requests

* Bug Reports & Feature Requests: Please use to the [Issues page](https://github.com/rahmal/rconfig/issues)
* Want to Contribute? Send a Pull Request

== Known Issues

* None

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Rahmal Conda <rahmal@gmail.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

== Credits

Thanks to everyone I included here. RConfig would not exist without their contributions.

Mike Sandler, Kurt Stephens, CashNetUSA (CNU): 
* Wrote the proprietary class RConfig was originally based on.
